---
layout: default
title: Frequent Questions
---

h1. Frequent Questions

h2. What if none of these questions are my question?

Everyone is pretty responsive on the "mailing list":http://groups.google.com/group/mongomapper and you can also feel free to hop into #mongomapper on irc.freenode.net.

h2. Will MongoMapper use Active Model at some point?

Yes. There is already a "Rails 3 branch":https://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper/tree/rails3 that is ready to rock. Currently, it is really easy for a Rails 3 app to deal with git branches so until Rails 2 support is deprecated, it will remain in the branch.

h2. What is the difference between a Document and an Embedded Document?

A "Document":/documentation/document/ is a top level entity that has its own collection. An "EmbeddedDocument":/documentation/embedded-document.html is embedded inside of a Document. For example, in the document below, Template would be a MongoMapper::Document and would have a filename key. Field would be a MongoMapper::EmbeddedDocument and would be stored inside of the template document as an array of fields.

{% highlight javascript %}
{
  _id: ...
  filename: 'product',
  fields: [
    {_id: ..., key: 'description', type: 'long_text'},
    {_id: ..., key: 'weight', type: 'number'},
  ]
}
{% endhighlight %}

h2. When should I embed?

The general rule of thumb is to only embed when the document will *only* be show in the context of the parent document. If you need access to the document outside of the parent, don't embed (or de-normalize and store the document in two places.

h2. What about Mongoid? Candy? MongoDoc? MongoModel?

Different strokes for different folks. Read up on all of them and give them a try.