---
layout: documentation
title: Contributing
---

h2. Documentation

MongoMapper needs your help to make the documentation better. Here's how to contribute:


# Fork the "repo on GitHub":http://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper and check out the gh-pages branch.
{% highlight sh %}
$ git checkout -b gh-pages origin/gh-pages
{% endhighlight %}
# Install the Jekyll gem
{% highlight sh %}
$ gem install jekyll
{% endhighlight %}
# Install "Pygments":http://pygments.org/docs/installation/
{% highlight sh %}
$ sudo easy_install Pygments
{% endhighlight %}
# Run the Jekyll server
{% highlight sh %}
jekyll --auto --server
{% endhighlight %}
# Open up http://localhost:4000/ in your web browser
# Make your documentation changes
# Push your changes and submit a pull request

h3. Suggestions

Here are some ways you can contribute:

* "Modifiers":https://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper/blob/master/lib/mongo_mapper/plugins/modifiers.rb
* "Serialization":https://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper/blob/master/lib/mongo_mapper/plugins/serialization.rb
* "Association methods (many, belongs_to, one)":https://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper/blob/master/lib/mongo_mapper/plugins/associations.rb
* Polymorphic associations

h3. Guidelines

In order to maintain quality, here are some guidelines for contributing to the MongoMapper documentation.

* Don't document hacks or workarounds. If MongoMapper is broken or doesn't support something, note it in the docs and add an issue to the "issue tracker":http://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper/issues.
* Avoid narratives. People don't really care why you're writing the documentation, they just want to know how to use MongoMapper.
* Be concise without sacrificing clarity.